---
layout: default
title: Introduction
permalink: introduction
---
<!-- Add an essay or interpretive material below this line,
using HTML or markdown.  Do not modify this file above this line -->
##Introduction

<p>Annotation is one of John Unsworth’s scholarly primitives: processes essential for research, pedagogy, and interpretation. Although primarily considered in relation to printed texts, it’s also useful for scholars working with digital sound recordings, wherein various forms of annotation can serve various functions, from metadata that provides contextualizing information, to transcriptions which remediate sound, to personal, timestamped notes. These forms of annotation are specific to different contexts, such as the format of the audio recording, the affordances of the repository in which it is displayed, and the listening paradigm of the creator. Because annotation is not an ahistorical, incidental consequence of interacting with audio online but rather a situated artifact of a given listening experience, it holds within it also the possibility of critical reflexivity about an audiotext and its various forms of mediation. Typical theories of annotation tend not to consider the affordances of annotation when it is not an artifact of “authorial intention,” (as in paratext and occasionally marginalia) or else a means of making an item “system-aware” (as in metadata schemes used in online repositories) (Clement and Fischer, par. 1, par. 3). However, recent scholarship has produced both theories (e.g. Clement and Fischer’s “audiated annotation”) and case studies (e.g. The SpokenWeb Digital Anthology, published on AVAnnotate) illustrating the critical significance of annotation as a practice in itself. Based on these developments, I use annotation in this project as a means to think reflexively about how I represent the specific features of a given audiotext and the specific forms of mediation that inform my listening. I find that a consciously reflexive annotation process leads to annotations that reflect their own situatedness.</p>

<p>	This AVAnnotate project is a case study in reflexive annotation. Here, I present annotations of three recordings of Oana Avasilichioaei’s performance at the 2019 SpokenWeb Symposium. My annotation is grounded in audiotextual features, including polyphony, semiotic features, and sonic stratification; and markers of my own mediated listening practice, which was focused on relative differences through use of the digital editing application Audacity. Although each recording is of the same performance, they come from recording devices placed differently in the room. By reflexively attending to the audiotextual and mediated specificities of each audiotext, I produce annotations that highlight the distinct features of each, rather than reducing them to a common or essential set of sounds. This case study is an indication that reflexive annotation can assert audiotextual multiplicity, and highlight the multimedial and (frequently) unauthorized elements that make it possible to listen to and annotate audio. I begin by discussing how features of the audiotexts, such as polyvocality, ambient sound, vocal modulation, fluctuations, semantic features, and novel sounds, inform my selection of a common annotation genre and language, but varying topics and layers. Next, I address how the technological specificities of my listening experience inform my use of relative language and changing precision in my timestamps. Each topic I discuss includes examples from my “Operator” annotations. </p>

## Audiotextual Features
<p>While there are several potential forms audio annotation can take, the selection of a given form and vocabulary to describe sound isn't typically discussed as a result of interpretive and/or critical strategies. Rather, it’s a result of functional needs (e.g. transcripts for a podcast) or technological affordances (e.g. the parameters of a given metadata scheme). However, tools like AVAnnotate, which support a variety of forms of annotation, allow users creative latitude to define their own format (within certain limits) and vocabulary. Different ways of annotating sound are informed by different critical histories and interpretive goals. For instance, describing sound through the lens of prosody situates annotations in a specific form of poetic criticism which assumes consistency and exactitude (Bernstein 14). Another form, transcription of semantic language, in “demand[ing] a certain degree of envoicement from the reader,” may obscure the semiotic qualities of the audiotext (Camlot and Mitchell). Furthermore, elements like timestamps may represent different temporalities depending on whether they’re strictly chronological or allow for gaps and overlaps in time. The critical significance of forms and vocabularies of annotation, then, is not only in their affordances as means of representation, but also in how they constitute sound. In the following discussion, I describe some elements of the “Operator” audiotexts and explain how I used them to inform the structure of my annotations.</p>

<p><i>
Layered timestamps and indexes
</i></p>
